docs/index.md, before:

# Alexander Omand

**Strategic Product Leader | Platform & Developer Experience**  
Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire  
📧 aomand@hotmail.co.uk

---

## **Profile**
I’m a strategic product leader with a **deep technical foundation**, specialising in **platform** and **developer experience** products. My background spans product and project management, consistently working on the technical side of software delivery. With an **MSc in Computer Science** and a **BEng in Aerospace Engineering**, I take an analytical, data-led approach to problem-solving and decision-making.

Outside of work, I’ve always enjoyed coding as a hobby, having explored Java, C# with Unity, and now Python. My **hands-on curiosity** and **technical mindset** have shaped how I work with development teams. I thrive on translating complex technical challenges into **intuitive, high-value solutions** that empower developers and drive business outcomes. Just as important as the technology itself, I prioritise **people leadership**, fostering **collaborative, high-performing teams** through mentorship, coaching, and an inclusive culture.

---

## **Skills**

<style>
  .skills-list {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: space-between;
  }
  .skills-list ul {
    list-style-type: disc;
    padding-left: 20px;
    width: 48%;
  }
</style>

<div class="skills-list">
  <ul>
    <li>Platform & Product Strategy</li>
    <li>Internal Developer Platforms</li>
    <li>Developer Experience</li>
    <li>SQL, Python & Data Analytics</li>
    <li>Metrics and Experimentation</li>
  </ul>
  <ul>
    <li>Logging & Observability</li>
    <li>Mentoring & Coaching</li>
    <li>Team Development & Growth</li>
    <li>Cross-Functional Collaboration</li>
    <li>Leadership & Culture Building</li>
  </ul>
</div>

---

## **Career History**

### **Head of Product – Platforms**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *Nov 2023 - Present*  
- Lead a team of **7 platform product managers** across a broad platform portfolio, spanning Web, Mobile, APIs (incl. GraphQL), Runtime, Events, Experimentation, and Developer Experience.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Improved **developer onboarding** and **time-to-first deploy** by introducing a Mobile App Starter Kit, cutting setup time from **4 weeks to 1 hour**.  
- Drive **platform adoption** across engineering, reducing cognitive load and **accelerating software delivery** through well-designed APIs, CI/CD tooling, and cloud-native services.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Optimised DevEx tooling, contributing to **£1.75M saving** in hidden development costs through efficiency gains and reduced friction.  
- Define and execute **platform product strategy**, balancing long-term vision with rapid MVP iterations based on user feedback and data.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Collaboratively developed a unified Developer Platform strategy, aligning tailored platform roadmaps under a common engineering vision.  
- Established **developer experience** and **engineering metrics** as core performance indicators, introducing a KPI and metrics framework for platforms.  
- Evangelised **technical platform skills** within product management, securing funding for training and hiring, transforming the function into a **highly skilled, technically capable team**.  

### **Senior Product Manager – Platforms**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *Jan 2020 – Nov 2023*  
- Led the product development of internal developer runtime platforms, providing streamlined and effective tooling for engineering teams.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Reduced edge compute change time from **up to 7 days to just 30 minutes**, eliminating **20+ days/month of idle time** across multiple teams.  
- Spearheaded **DevEx initiatives**, introducing self-service platforms that reduced friction for developers.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Shifted teams to **product mindset** ways of working, ensuring we measured success through data, driving continuous iteration based on key performance metrics.  
- Defined **API and platform strategies**, ensuring **usability, security, and scalability**.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Increased API adoption and simplified the tech landscape by reducing API count.  
- Introduced a **data-driven culture** for platforms, embedding measurement and experimentation as a foundation for decision-making.  
### **Senior Technical Project Manager – Core Technology Platforms**  
**Product Madness** | *Mar 2018 – Jan 2020*  
- Managed technical teams working on **core game platform, DevOps, and infrastructure**.
- Drove **adaptive processes** to ensure **high-quality, timely deliveries** across on-site and remote teams.
- Maintained transparency through detailed programme and project roadmaps, providing **clear communications** to stakeholders.

### **Tech & Project Management Career Progression**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *May 2011 – Mar 2018*  

Progressing from **Business Analyst** to **Senior Technical Project Manager**, I played a key role in shaping M&S’s retail technology landscape. Over seven years, I led projects spanning payments, POS, retail technology, and automation, consistently working at the intersection of technology, product, and operations. My experience evolved from business analysis and delivery leadership into **technical project management**, where I introduced automation, self-service tooling, and agile best practices to improve development workflows.  

#### **Key Achievements:**  
- Led analysis for an **award-winning payments system upgrade**, making M&S the first Tier 1 UK retailer to adopt contactless payments.  
- Delivered multiple **POS & payments projects**, introducing **automated build and test pipelines** to enhance reliability.  
- Spearheaded **automation initiatives**, transitioning physical test environments to the cloud for improved scalability.  
- Served as an **Agile Champion**, driving best practices across IT teams.  
- Delivered a large-scale intranet project with **65,000 users**, ensuring smooth rollout and adoption.  

---

## **Ongoing Learning**
- **Platform Engineering (In Progress)** – 6-Month Course (*2025*)
- Currently completing an **intensive 100-day Python boot camp**. The course focuses on **object-oriented programming, APIs, and data processing**.

---

## **Education**
- **MSc Computer Science (Distinction)** – University of Hertfordshire (*2011*)
- **BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering with Astronautics** – Kingston University (*2007*)

---

## **Professional Training & Certifications**
- SAFe 5.0 Agilist
- PRINCE2 Practitioner
- International Diploma in Business Analysis
- Systems Development (QA)
- Scrum Practitioner (QA)

---

Commit message:

added a couple more final Impact Examples for this round

docs/index.md, after:

# Alexander Omand

**Strategic Product Leader | Platform & Developer Experience**  
Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire  
📧 aomand@hotmail.co.uk

---

## **Profile**
I’m a strategic product leader with a **deep technical foundation**, specialising in **platform** and **developer experience** products. My background spans product and project management, consistently working on the technical side of software delivery. With an **MSc in Computer Science** and a **BEng in Aerospace Engineering**, I take an analytical, data-led approach to problem-solving and decision-making.

Outside of work, I’ve always enjoyed coding as a hobby, having explored Java, C# with Unity, and now Python. My **hands-on curiosity** and **technical mindset** have shaped how I work with development teams. I thrive on translating complex technical challenges into **intuitive, high-value solutions** that empower developers and drive business outcomes. Just as important as the technology itself, I prioritise **people leadership**, fostering **collaborative, high-performing teams** through mentorship, coaching, and an inclusive culture.

---

## **Skills**

<style>
  .skills-list {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: space-between;
  }
  .skills-list ul {
    list-style-type: disc;
    padding-left: 20px;
    width: 48%;
  }
</style>

<div class="skills-list">
  <ul>
    <li>Platform & Product Strategy</li>
    <li>Internal Developer Platforms</li>
    <li>Developer Experience</li>
    <li>SQL, Python & Data Analytics</li>
    <li>Metrics and Experimentation</li>
  </ul>
  <ul>
    <li>Logging & Observability</li>
    <li>Mentoring & Coaching</li>
    <li>Team Development & Growth</li>
    <li>Cross-Functional Collaboration</li>
    <li>Leadership & Culture Building</li>
  </ul>
</div>

---

## **Career History**

### **Head of Product – Platforms**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *Nov 2023 - Present*  
- Lead a team of **7 platform product managers** across a broad platform portfolio, spanning Web, Mobile, APIs (incl. GraphQL), Runtime, Events, Experimentation, and Developer Experience.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Improved **developer onboarding** and **time-to-first deploy** by introducing a Mobile App Starter Kit, cutting setup time from **4 weeks to 1 hour**.  
- Drive **platform adoption** across engineering, reducing cognitive load and **accelerating software delivery** through well-designed APIs, CI/CD tooling, and cloud-native services.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Optimised DevEx tooling, contributing to **£1.75M saving** in hidden development costs through efficiency gains and reduced friction.  
- Define and execute **platform product strategy**, balancing long-term vision with rapid MVP iterations based on user feedback and data.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Collaboratively developed a unified Developer Platform strategy, aligning tailored platform roadmaps under a common engineering vision.  
- Established **developer experience** and **engineering metrics** as core performance indicators, introducing a KPI and metrics framework for platforms.  
- Evangelised **technical platform skills** within product management, securing funding for training and hiring, transforming the function into a **highly skilled, technically capable team**.  

### **Senior Product Manager – Platforms**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *Jan 2020 – Nov 2023*  
- Led the product development of internal developer runtime platforms, providing streamlined and effective tooling for engineering teams.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Reduced edge compute change time from **up to 7 days to just 30 minutes**, eliminating **20+ days/month of idle time** across multiple teams.  
- Spearheaded **DevEx initiatives**, introducing self-service platforms that reduced friction for developers.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Shifted teams to **product mindset** ways of working, ensuring we measured success through data, driving continuous iteration based on key performance metrics.  
- Defined **API and platform strategies**, ensuring **usability, security, and scalability**.  
  ✅ **Impact example:** Increased API adoption and simplified the tech landscape by reducing API count.  
- Introduced a **data-driven culture** for platforms, embedding measurement and experimentation as a foundation for decision-making.  
### **Senior Technical Project Manager – Core Technology Platforms**  
**Product Madness** | *Mar 2018 – Jan 2020*  
- Managed technical teams working on **core game platform, DevOps, and infrastructure**.
  ✅ **Impact example:** Ensured more of the code base was reused, reducing cost and time to market
- Drove **adaptive processes** to ensure **high-quality, timely deliveries** across on-site and remote teams.
  ✅ **Impact example:** Improved team flow and feature visibility across the org.
- Maintained transparency through detailed programme and project roadmaps, providing **clear communications** to stakeholders.

### **Tech & Project Management Career Progression**  
**Marks & Spencer** | *May 2011 – Mar 2018*  

Progressing from **Business Analyst** to **Senior Technical Project Manager**, I played a key role in shaping M&S’s retail technology landscape. Over seven years, I led projects spanning payments, POS, retail technology, and automation, consistently working at the intersection of technology, product, and operations. My experience evolved from business analysis and delivery leadership into **technical project management**, where I introduced automation, self-service tooling, and agile best practices to improve development workflows.  

#### **Key Achievements:**  
- Delivered analysis for an **award-winning payments system upgrade**, making M&S the first Tier 1 UK retailer to adopt contactless payments.  
- Delivered multiple **POS & payments projects**, introducing **automated build and test pipelines** to enhance reliability.  
- Spearheaded **automation initiatives**, transitioning physical test environments to the cloud for improved scalability.  
- Served as an **Agile Champion**, driving best practices across IT teams.  
- Delivered a large-scale intranet project with **65,000 users**, ensuring smooth rollout and adoption.  

---

## **Ongoing Learning**
- **Platform Engineering (In Progress)** – 6-Month Course (*2025*)
- Currently completing an **intensive 100-day Python boot camp**. The course focuses on **object-oriented programming, APIs, and data processing**.

---

## **Education**
- **MSc Computer Science (Distinction)** – University of Hertfordshire (*2011*)
- **BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering with Astronautics** – Kingston University (*2007*)

---

## **Professional Training & Certifications**
- SAFe 5.0 Agilist
- PRINCE2 Practitioner
- International Diploma in Business Analysis
- Systems Development (QA)
- Scrum Practitioner (QA)

---
